.. TODO: title
==============


.. container:: header

  | Last Updated: .. TODO: today's date
  | *Not Verified*

.. index:: .. TODO suggest at least 3 index

Environment
-----------

  - Superpod
  - SSH with X11

Issue
-----

  .. TODO: Describe the issue
     E.g.

Resolution
----------

.. TODO: Effectively illustrate the solution with sample code and corresponding screen output

.. Do:
   - Use subsections at level ~~~~ and ^^^^
   - Use bullet point with no indent to indicate steps, each step should be actionable
   - Use note:: to emphasize whatever care should be taken at some steps
   - Use warning:: to point out potential mistake
   - Use error:: to point out cases where it cannot be solved
   - Provide code in .. code-block::
   - Provide both code and expected screen output in code-block:: shell-session when needed

.. Don't
   - Indent the paragraph of resolution section
   - Explain technical details in this section, technical details should go to "Root Cause" section

If you have compiled the libraries and program in the default user's Spack directory, you must recompile program and libraries in a shared Spack directory, and have other group members to use the same shared Spack instance.

Managing shared Spack directory
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

To relocate Spack onto a shared directory, you need to set the environment variables ``SPACK_USER_CONFIG_PATH`` and ``SPACK_USER_CACHE_PATH`` and reload the spack environment.

.. warning::

  Please assign a member as the **owner (writable)** of the shared Spack instance.Having multiple users to modify software in the same shared Spack directory may cause conflicts.

  If there is need for multiple users to modify the software, consider sharing ``spack env`` yaml definition instead.

Create a shared Spack instance
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Create a directory for Spack under ``/project`` of your group.

.. code-block:: bash

  mkdir -p /project/my-research-group/spack

Set the environment variables and reload the spack environment

.. code-block:: bash

  export SPACK_USER_CONFIG_PATH="/project/my-research-group/spack"
  export SPACK_USER_CACHE_PATH="/project/my-research-group/spack"
  . /opt/shared/spack/share/spack/setup-env.sh

This will initialize the shared Spack instance in ``/project/my-research-group/spack``

Recompile program and libraries
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

You should set and reload the spack environment whenever you need to modify this shared Spack instance, instead of the default user's Spack instance.

.. code-block:: bash

  export SPACK_USER_CONFIG_PATH="/project/my-research-group/spack"
  export SPACK_USER_CACHE_PATH="/project/my-research-group/spack"
  . /opt/shared/spack/share/spack/setup-env.sh

After setting the environment variables, any spack command can be used as usual.

.. code-block:: bash

  # spack install cmake

Using shared executables and libraries
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

All spack executables and libraries can be accessed via ``module`` command.

.. code-block:: bash

  module use /project/my-research-group/spack/lmod/Core

You should find the installed software listed under the shared Spack instance's path.

.. code-block:: shell-session

  user@host:~ ]$ module avail
  ------------------- /project/my-research-group/spack/lmod/Core --------------------
  cmake/3.xx.x-abcdefg

  ------------------------ /opt/shared/modulefiles/Core -----------------------------
  ...

Use ``module load`` to load software and libraries as usual.

.. note::

  In case another version is available at other module locations, you should specify the ``version`` and ``hash`` to ensure the correct software is loaded.

.. code-block:: bash

  module load cmake/3.xx.x-abcdefg

Root Cause
-----------

The default location of Spack user installation is ``$HOME/.spack`` directory.

It is not possible to share anything inside ``$HOME`` directory with your group members.

----

.. container:: footer

  **HPC Support Team**
    | ITSC, HKUST
    | Email: cchelp@ust.hk
    | Web: https://itsc.ust.hk

  **Article Info**
    | Issued: 2024-12-03
    | Issued by: kftse (at) ust.hk
